So it's a system that neglects
the child while at the same time demands
the child. Okay? And this is trauma.
And again,
most kids will be traumatized by the
system. But there are some kids who will
thrive in the system and the trauma will
encourage them or drive them to achieve
and achieve and achieve so that they get
into Yale so they can compete the Hunger
Games so they can go on in life and
compete some more. Okay? And that's how
the system is set up. And this is what
we call the meritocracy.
And and as I'll explain to you later on,
it is destroying America and the world.
All
right. So that's how the system is set
up. And guess what guys? Is it different
in China?
Not really. Okay. All right. So the
concept of meritocracy has conquered the
world. It started in America. It
actually started at Harvard, but now
it's conquered the entire world and
that's why the world is so messed up.
>> Um so as you say the Yale gives you so
many uh negative emotions. So, will you
still go to there if you got a second
chance?
>> Okay, so that's a really good question.
Um, would I go there if I had a second
chance? And the answer is probably.
Okay, and the reason why is the set
system is set up that you don't really
have a choice, right? If you want to
move ahead in the world and you're poor,
what are your options? Right? So before
in America
um there are opportunities for poor
people to succeed. So for example George
Washington the first president of United
States he never went to college. Abraham
Lincoln didn't go to the Ivy League and
these are two are considered the two
greatest presidents in American history.
Unfortunately today if you look at the
presidents if you look at the top people
they all went to the elite schools. Okay
so the system is set up so that if you
if you want to succeed you have to go
through the Ivy League. But I do not
plan to send my kids to the Ivy League.
Okay. The last thing I would do is have
them in such a competitive traumatic
environment as the Ivy League. Okay.
Does that make sense? All right. All
right. Any more questions? So, so thank
you for your question. Any more
questions before I move on? Okay. So,
let's do a PBT and I'll explain to you
how
America is destroying the world. Okay.
Sorry about this. Okay.
So I I I actually need to go back to the
beginning. Okay. Death by meritocracy.
All right. So let's go. Okay. So if you
from this um graph, what you can see is
this. In the year 1875,
the best universities in the world were
actually not in America. They were in
Germany. Germany was producing the most
Nobel Prize winners. Second was France
followed by the UK. Okay. and America
was non-existent but because of its
investments in research universities it
started to move up and up and then it it
won World War II so now it can import
all these German scientists and that's
why it dominates today so the best
universities in the world are now
America or in America Harvard Yale and
Princeton okay
um now as university get better and
better they're letting more students
okay and as you can See, more and more
American students are now going to
college. Before in 1940, it was only
about 5% of all males who went to
university. Today, it's almost um it's
35% basically. Okay, so that's a huge
step. And you would think that with the
increase in um college graduates,
America will become a much more equal
society, right?
Well, the opposite has happened. Okay.
Um, America has become a much more
unequal society. Um, there's something
called the GDI coefficient which
measures inequality. And as you can see,
um, these past 20 years, it's gone way
up. It's among the highest in the world.
Meaning, America right now is one of the
most unequal societies in the world.
even though it it mo even though um over
a third of its young people go and
graduate from college.
This is a graph of social mobility.
Okay. So uh the graph the top the top
this number shows you um if the number
of people who are doing better than
their parents as you can see in the year
1940 most people are doing better than
their parents but over time it's no
one's doing better than their parents.
Okay so your generation
um you will not do better than your
parents most of you. Okay.
um in in income inequality has gone way
up the United States, the top 1% control
most of the wealth in the United States
as you can see from this map. Okay.
So even though America's become
wealthier, it's actually going to just
the 1%.
At the same time, univers universities
are becoming much more expensive. Okay,
so this is leading to student debt.
You can see how student debt, student
loans has gone way up. So in America,
student loans, student debt is the only
type of debt that you can never ever get
rid of. You can't declare bankruptcy.
You can this debt cannot be getting be
gotten rid of. Okay? When you die, it
passes on to your children. Okay? So um
this is a terrible situation for young
people in America. This is actually more
stark graph where tuition has gone way
up but wages have stayed pretty
stagnant.
Okay.
Um and it's leading to depression among
teenagers. Okay. And um also the thing
about this graph is the middle class and
wealthy students are much more likely to
be depressed and identify as depressed
than poor students.
Right. So this is linear crisis in
America. So why are we why what what has
happened? Well, you have two individuals
who create the meritocracy. The first is
named James B. Connet and he was
president of Harvard for a couple
decades and he was a person who brought
brought the SAT in order to identify
scholarship students and he made Harvard
into the best research university in
America. Okay. And he was determined to
make Harvard into the best university in
the world as well as an institution of
power in America. Meaning that it would
now decide who wins and who loses in
America. The man who would help him is
named Harry Chanty. He was dean of
Harvard who was in charge of the
scholarship program. Then he got a new
job at a new organization new
organization called ETS. You know ETSs
because it's education testing services.
They're the ones responsible for the
SAT, the TOEFL, the AP, the GRE. Okay.
So, these two together create the modern
meritocracy. And as you can imagine,
because you're both from Harvard, the
entire system is set up to benefit
Harvard.
>> Okay? And guess what guys, it worked.
Okay? So, in the year 1940,
90% of applicants for Harvard got
accepted. Now it's gone way down to
5%. Okay, Stanford is even lower. Okay,
so now it's so hard to get to Harvard.
At the same time, look at the cash of
Harvard. Okay, this is called the
endowment. The amount of money they have
at Harvard is just ridiculous. They have
more money than most countries in the
world right now. Their endowment is
about $40 billion.
Okay? And it's just the past 30, 40
years.
The success of the Harvard alumni is
just incredible. The most billionaires
in America, Harvard graduates, more
billionaires than any other place. Okay?
127 uh billionaires in 2024. Second is
Stanford. All right? No one else comes
close.
But not only that, but it's also anyone
with with over $und00 million. Most of
them graduate from Harvard. Okay? 7% of
all sorry 7 7%
of all people in America who have over
$100 million in net worth graduate from
Harvard. Okay. Then you have MIT,
Stanford, Pennsylvania, Columbia, Yale,
Cornell, Princeton. Guess what, guys?
Ivy League plus MIT.
Okay.
Okay. $30 million. Still Harvard is
number one. Okay. All right. So, their
graduates are the most successful in
America.
Okay, but it's not just rich people.
It's everyone in the American elite.
Okay, most of them are graduates of the
elite universities. Okay, so this is a
article in Nature and they looked at all
the elite in America and what they
discovered is they all most of them went
to certain schools, the elite
universities. Um, and this is what's
causing a lot of political conflict in
America today. All right. So, let's just
look at what what they found. The red is
Harvard graduates. Okay. The green are
Harvard plus Ivy League. And as you can
see, Harvard is everywhere. Even among
generals, admirals, there's Harvard
people. Okay? They dominate in terms of
philosophers and professors, but they're
everywhere. Even politer prize winners,
billionaires, New York Times bestselling
authors,
Fortune 500 CEOs, federal judges,
senators. Okay, they're everywhere. And
that's the power of Harvard.
This is a this is a portion of of
Harvard graduates compared with the
general population. This is the portion
of Harvard graduates compared with the
elite. Okay, you see you see the
contrast.
So Harvard and Ivory League dominate
America today. Okay.
Now, what's amazing is
Harvard people don't know they dominate
Harvard. They don't know their elite. So
they did a survey and so they asked
people in these elite organizations, how
many people do you think in this
organization went to Harvard and other
elite universities? So the red is the
actual number, the blue is the estimate.
So Harvard, they really don't even know
they dominate America.
Okay. If you ask them like, "No, it's
conspiracy theory."
No, you're spreading conspiracy
theories. We're just average people.
There's no way Harvard controls America.
All right. Now, um, as I mentioned at
Harvard, just going to Harvard is not
enough. You have to join the elite
social clubs, the social secret
societies. So at Harvard there's a place
like the at Harvard everyone should join
the more porcelain club. Okay. Um at
Princeton is the Ivy club. Okay. These
are secret societies or they're not
really secret but they're senior they're
senior societies. Okay. They're clubs
that everyone should join. At Yale it's
skull and bones. Okay. Skull and bones
is the most famous college secret
society. They're not that secret because
they they like to brag that that they're
um um skull and bones. They're so
powerful
that they produce a lot of presidents, a
lot of rich people. Okay.
20 2004. Okay. Um George W. Bush versus
John Kerry. Guess what, guys? John Kerry
is the Democratic nominee. George Bush
is Republican nominee, right? They're
both skull and bones. They're both Yale
skull and bones.
Okay. So, it's a rigged game.
Barack Obama. Okay, Barack Obama,
Colombia, went to Harvard Law School,
but he promised hope and change. He told
people in 2008 that the game is rigged
against them, that he would be their
champion,
that he would make America more fair.
Okay? And he won. Why? Because well,
sorry. Right. So this is this is his
book Dreams My Father. Um it was a New
York Times bestseller. It it basically
launched his political career.
Um he won because in 2008 the US economy
collapsed. Why? Because the US banks,
the US political system was controlled
by Ivy League graduates, by just people
who were friends with each other. And so
they cheated. They became corrupt. Okay?
They basically destroyed the American
economy.
and people protested
uh against all this and Barack Obama
promised that we come in and do
something about it. Okay. Well, he did
he did do something about it. All right.
So, his e economic team, he appointed
quite a few individuals. These these are
the two most famous. Larry Summers who
was a Harvard graduate as well as as a
president of Harvard and he was treasur
secretary under Bill Clinton and he was
the guy who created the mess in the
first place and then Tim Gner who's a
Dartmouth graduate and he was a treasure
secretary. Okay, so these are friends of
Wall Street who came in to save Wall
Street. So a lot of critics say you know
it's Wall Street who created this mess
who destroyed the American economy. they
should be punished or at least they
should feel some pain. If you just let
them go and help them out and save them,
then you create a problem called moral
hazard. The idea of moral hazard is if
you don't have have any consequences for
your mistake, you will do it again.
Okay? And then Larry Summer said, "No,
no, you guys are seeing it incorrectly.
We have to save the American economy.
The goal is not to save the banks and my
friends. the goal is to save the
American people and the American economy
and that's why we're bailing out the
banks by giving them
free money. Okay? And then the critics
were like, "Well, how about all these
American homeowners who've lost their
homes? Shouldn't we help them as well?"
And and you know what Larry Summer said?
Moral hazard, guys. Do you understand?
Moral hazard. If we help out these
ordinary Americans, they won't learn
anything.
Okay. So, as you can see, people were
angry. The banks got saved. The people
got screwed over. And guess what, guys?
Because because of this, who who did we
get? This guy. Okay, this is why he won.
There were millions of Americans who
voted for Barack Obama because he
promised hope and change. And then they
voted for Donald Trump because he
promised destroy the system.
Okay, that's why we have Donald Trump.
Now, funny story about Donald Trump and
Barack Obama. So, Barack Obama and
Donald Trump were always adversaries. In
fact, Donald Trump led a movement uh
which accused Barack Obama of not being
being born in America. Um it's he's born
in America, but Donald Trump is saying
no, no, he he was actually born in
Nigeria. His father is from Nigeria. So,
Barack Obama made fun of Donald Trump.
2011, there's a big dinner, the White
House correspondents dinner where where
Barack Obama gets on gets on stage and
he makes fun of Donald Trump. Okay? He
says, "Hey, if Donald Trump ever became
president, this is what the White House
would look like. It'd be a casino."
Okay?
And this is funny, right? Donald Trump
was in the audience that day
>> and everyone was laughing at him and
that's what motivated Donald Trump to
become president of United States.
>> Okay. So thank Obama for Donald Trump.
Without Obama, there would be no Donald
Trump.
>> Okay. So it's not just Barack Obama.
It's a lot of people in the American
political class. They're just soulless
um robots. Okay. This this this this man
is JD Vance. He's the vice president for
Donald Trump. like like Barack Obama, he
wrote a book, a really a bestseller
called Hillbilly Elegy. And it's
possible he becomes president of the
United States as well. Now, you may not
know this, but when he first came into
prominence, he opposed Donald Trump. He
thought that Donald Trump would be a
fascist and be a dictator and all that.
And then suddenly he changes his opinion
and said Donald Trump is the greatest
guy in the world. Okay, so these guys
like JD Vance and Barack Obama, they
have no ideas of their own. They're just
puppets. They just they just um tell
people what they want to hear.
All they know is achievement. Okay. So,
another example of this, this man's name
is Johnny Kim. Okay? And he'll probably
run for president of the United States
one day or at least be a US senator.
Why? Why do I mention him? Guess what,
guys? He was a Navy Seal, which is a
which is the top position you can ever
achieve in the military. He was he was a
secret soldier. Okay? He was he went to
Harvard medical school became a doctor.
Then he joined NASA became an astronaut.
>> This is like the ideal
Ivy League graduate. Okay. This is what
Harvard wants.
>> Now why is he able to do all this? Well,
because
this is his Wikipedia entry. Okay. In
2002, the police went into his house and
killed his father. He was there and he
saw the police killed his father. He was
traumatized for life. His father was a
domestic abuser. The father was violent,
crazy, hit him all the time. Okay? So,
he has dissociative personality
disorder. And in fact, if you look at
most of the of all these really
successful people, they do have
dissociative personality disorder.
And that's why he was able to do all
that do all this because he turned the
trauma into an energy to drive him to
greater and greater achievement. The
problem though is he has no ideas of his
own. He's just a puppet guys. Okay. So
let's conclude and summarize
why the meritocracy is so great. Um it
creates this extreme inequality in
America. Okay. So, um, it destroyed the
school system because all people care
about are the grades now, right? People
don't even care about learning anymore.
All all they want are the grades. In
fact, if you get a bad grade, you'll
probably complain to the teacher. In
which case, the teacher is not afraid to
teach you because if the teacher tries
to challenge you, make you a better
student, you'll just complain. Okay? And
your and if you don't if you don't
succeed, your parents will come and
complain. Okay? Uh, traumatized
children. Okay. Okay,
>> if you look at the rate of mental
illness in China, in America, it's just
insane.
>> Death of American dream and social
mobility, you're not going to be richer
than your parents. You're just not. Uh
concentration of wealth, power, and
status in the 1%, the rich, the riches
get richer. Political divide between
left and right. Okay, so you have all
this political divisions right now in
America. Corruption. So, Wall Street
just steals and steals and steals and no
one can do do anything about it.
destruction of American identity,
globalization, immigration, woke
ideology, okay? Uh incompetent and
mismanagement. You look at COVID, you
look at the fact that America now has
$37 trillion in debt. An elite that is
soulless, mediocre, and unimaginative,
okay? Barack Obama, JD Vance, this guy
Johnny Kim. Okay, they're just they're
just robots. Oh, and Donald Trump. Okay,
so thank you American metocracy for
destroying the world.
Okay.
All right, questions, guys.
I I know this was a lot to take in, but
do you have any questions?
You're all depressed and sad
>> and shocked.
Yeah, we have a question. Thank you.
like is there a way to get rid of all
those bad uh impacts of this? I mean
like is there some suggestions for us to
help us better develop ourself uh not
just using this system?
>> Okay, great question. Okay, so
the real solution is to destroy the Ivy
League. Okay, and there are different
ways you can destroy the Ivy League. The
best way is to make them public, okay?
To make to to have for the government to
come in and control them because a lot
of the issues stems from the fact that
these are institutions that only care
about their own power.
Okay? So, the government were in charge.
Um, they wouldn't be so powerful and
secretive. Okay? So, that's the best
solution. It's not going to happen
because Harvard, as you can see, it's
too powerful as well as Yale.
So, um, as an individual,
your best option is to recognize how
evil the system is and choose to
learn for yourself, okay? Because when
you go to Yale or Harvard or Princeton,
you think you're learning, but you're
not. You're being indoctrinated and
being brainwashed and being traumatized
to be turned into basically a robot
that's only focused on success. So you
need to recognize this. Be truthful to
yourself and focus on real learning.
Okay. So what do I mean by that? Okay.
So let me um sorry let let me um
explain.
Okay. So success
what is real success? Well before the
meritocracy
you didn't have to go to college but you
you need to have certain values and
attitude.
Okay. So, the first was to be
open-minded.
What and so recognize that you have a
lot to learn and ask questions, learn
from other people. Okay?
And what people recognized was failure
is the best
teacher. Why? Because failure forces
reflection,
right?
and resilience
which leads to learning.
Okay. And this is a model that most
people understood before the
meritocracy. Keep an open mind. Make
mistakes because if you make mistakes,
you will learn from them naturally and
then you can reflect and then you can be
become resilient and then you will grow
and grow and then you will achieve your
true potential. Okay. The meritocracy
has destroyed this system. Why? Because
now we just want you to focus on grades.
Okay? And to get good grades, you cannot
fail. Do you understand? Failure now is
a problem. If you fail a class, you may
learn a lot from your failure, but it
won't look good on your GPA, right? It
will destroy your GPA and you won't get
into Harvard. Okay? You don't you don't
have failure, you cannot have
reflection. You cannot have resilience.
Also
before you had time for yourself
nowadays every minute is organized for
you right you come to school the school
day is very long then you have lots of
homework and then you have activities
then you have to have dinner then all
that you don't have any you don't even
have time to just think for yourself to
just chill and do what you want to do
okay it's intentional
okay so destroying reflection you don't
have any resilience And so you can't
learn anything. So
the so it's a really bad system because
if you're like me, okay, you're just a
normal person. Your family your family's
not rich or powerful and you go to yell
in Harvard, it actually makes you fail
in life. Okay, let me explain why. Okay,
the first is it makes you arrogant.
It makes you it makes you think I went
to Yale, therefore I know more than
everyone else, so I don't have to ask
questions. I don't have to learn
anymore. Okay. Um, second is that it
makes you utilitarian.
You only care about things that help you
succeed. You're not actually interested
in real learning anymore.
Okay? And the third thing is all you
care about is success. So, you're
narrow-minded.
You don't want to explore. Okay? You're
not so creative anymore.
Okay? So, it's it's a great system if
you come from a rich family because this
system trains you to to go into power.
But if you're just like me and you need
to work hard and be talented
uh and be committed to your passion in
order to succeed, this actually destroys
all that. And that's why
um probably most traumatized people in
America are those who came from poor
families who had the dream of going to
the Ivy League who got in the Ivy League
and then
they just failed in life because they
don't have the ability to succeed. They
don't have the reflexive ability. They
don't they don't have the resilience.
They're not open-minded. They don't
accept failure. They're not committed to
learning. They're only committed to
success. Okay? So if you're rich, go to
Harvard and Yale and Princeton because
you'll become more rich. But if you're a
poor person,
going to these schools may be a mistake.
Okay? Certainly for me,
um it was a mistake because after I
graduated, I stumbled through life.
For me, it was just failure after
failure after failure because I want to
succeed right away.
Okay? I refused to put the time and
effort to learning a real skill and
learning a real passion.
Um and so um in my 30s, late 20s, early
30s, I became really depressed
and honestly I thought about killing
myself and um I was playing video games
every single day. I just hid in my
parents' basement and so um I was
traumatized by it. And it took me a long
time to get over the trauma and
recognize this is a false system. Okay,
Yale traumatized me and I need to
relearn to be open-minded to embrace
failure, to be resilient, to embrace
learning. Okay? And that's why I'm a
teacher today to teach you guys that to
be successful in life, this is the
formula. Okay? You don't need Harvard,
Yale, and Princeton.
All right?
All right. Any more questions, guys?
Yep.
>> Well, um, can we do both like
open-minded and get the grades and being
rich?
>> Okay.
>> Is it a possible thing?
>> Yeah, that's a great question. Thank
you. Okay. All right.
Okay. So, I'm I'm going to have to go
into some psychology here. Okay. But
psychologists have discovered that we
have two modes of being, right? There's
the altruistic
mode and there's the utilitarian mode.
Okay.
Okay. So, utitarian is what we call
fight or flight.
Okay. Uh altruistic is just family and
connections. So, imagine we're back in
the village. Okay. And most of the time
we are Yeah.
But you but you said that all the
psychology is just brainwashing.
>> Okay. I Yes. Psychology is not all
brainwashing. There's some valid
validity to it. Okay. And so I'm not
saying this is sic fact. I'm just saying
this is a good way to understand how
things work. Okay. All right. All right.
So you you so in the village we spend
most of the time being close with other
people, right? We want to be friends
with other people. So we help each other
out. But sometimes
um we have to be very utarian. So for
example um if there's if there's not
enough food okay or we're being attacked
guess what run man.
>> Okay so there are these two mindsets and
what psychologist have discovered is
they are mutually exclusive. It's either
one or the other. The other thing that
they discovered is the altruistic
mindset is what leads to creativity.
Okay. Creativity
um and passion and love.
Okay. The and the utarian mindset is one
that's focused on rewards.
Okay. Like grades.
So it is impossible to both want have
really good grades as well as help the
world. But what's interesting is Harvard
wants that. Okay. So in your
application, you have to say to Harvard,
I have a passion. I will die for my
passion, but at the same time, I want to
be a billionaire and I will die trying
to be a billionaire. At the same time, I
know it's important to be loyal to
Harvard. So I I will die being loyal to
Harvard. Okay? The only people who can
do this people are people who have
dissociative personality disorder.
Okay? And they can they can test for
that in your application. They're so
experienced that they know exactly
how you think. Okay? They all like,
"Come on, guys. You would not apply to
Harvard if you're not if you're not
utilitarian." Okay? Right?
But you have to pretend you're not. And
that's what makes people crazy. Okay?
Because you're basically an actor.
Harvard wants the best actors in the
world. They want people to go for like
pretending something they're not. Okay?
They want Barack Obama. The problem with
Barack Obama is he's soless.
He stands for nothing. Okay? In 2008, he
promised people hope and change. The
moment he gets in office, he's like,
"Sorry, man. I was just joking. Why did
you believe me?"
Okay. Then in 20 2012, when it's time
for reelection, he said, "Oh, you know
what? I want hoping change." Okay? In
2016, he's like, "You know what? Screw
that. I'm I'm I'm going to go water
skiing now." Okay? So the man is
actually soulless, sense of nothing.
All right, any more questions, guys?
Okay, great. So, thanks for today and uh
I'll see you guys after the break. Okay,
so we'll continue this after the break.